Harbir S. Dhillon
CS5278 Final Project 

Factory Pattern: This pattern is seen in QuestionFactory class.  The factory takes a string parameter (easy or hard) and returns a question object from the database corresponding to the difficulty. The question object has 3 get methods: question, choices and answer. The factory pattern is used here because the game cannot predict the type of objects it needs to create.  The user has to pick their difficulty on the start page to indicate this.  Then the factory class specifies the object it needs to create (easy, hard). 

Strategy Pattern: This pattern is used in the TicTacToe game, SpaceFrameDodge, Treasure and QuizFrame.  All these games have 2 levels of difficulty: easy and hard. The strategy from the program/computer player changes based on the difficulty selected by the player. The algorithms that compose the game change based on the difficulty. For example, in the TicTacToe game, in easy mode, the computer selects a random square whereas in hard mode, it is much more selective and cunning. The strategy pattern is used to toggle between these difficulties.  At first, a player may wish to see how he/she does in easy mode. If the player does well in easy mode or gets bored, they can try hard mode and challenge themselves.  The strategy pattern is used to control the algorithmic composition of the program and add some variety and features to the game.

Singleton Pattern: This is used in the results page.  The results page has a single array list that stores the games played as well has a score array list.  These variables are static and are updated at the end of each mini game. They cumulatively increase as games are played. These single instances remain constant through the given instance of the game. The singleton pattern is necessary because these variables are accessed all around the program and updated after each separate game. It is important for this to remain a single instance to track the scores in all the games played in that given session.  

Iterator pattern: This pattern is seen in the results page. A loop iterates through the games played variable and the scores variable mentioned in the singleton pattern. It creates JLabel components that are added to the user interface to display the games and scores earned by the player. The y coordinate of the jlabels is incremented within the loop to stack the scores on top of each other vertically. The iterator is used to iteratively loop through these array lists. Iterator pattern is designed to traverse through lists of items sequentially and in an ordered fashion. 